.TH Xless 1x "6 June 1993" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xless - File browsing program for the X Window System.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xless
.I [-f] [-toolkitoption ...] [filename ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Xless pops up a window on the display specified, containing the file
specified on the command line or piped in from stdin.  This file may easily
be viewed using the scrollbar to the left of the window.
Xless also takes input from the standard input.
Extra function are available on the toolbox to the right of the window:
.LP
.TP 10
- Pop up a help window.
.TP
- Search a specified pattern
.TP
- Search the next occurance of the above specified pattern
.LP
- Open a session of the editor (specified in the environment
variable EDITOR) on the current file
.TP
- Reload the current file
.TP
- Change file in the current window
.TP
- Open a new \fBxless\fP window to display the specified file
.TP
- Print the current file
.TP
- Close the current window
.LP
For further information on using
.B xless
please read the online
help information.  The rest of this manual page will discuss
customization of
.B xless
to suit the needs of a particular user.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP
Xless is build upon the \fIX Toolkit (Xt)\fP and as such understands all
the normal command line options (as described in \fIX(1)\fP.
It also supports:
.TP
.B \-follow
Continually check the file for new input (so that \fBxless\fP behaves like
\fItail -f\fP).
.TP
.B -f
Alias for \fI-f\fP.
.TP
.B -help
Print a list of valid options.
.B -version
Print the version number of this \fBxless\fP executable.
.SH "WIDGET AND RESOURCE NAMES"
.LP
In addition to the usual widget resources, Xless has the following
application resources:
.LP
.TP 10
.B standardFont
The default font to be used if any of the specified fonts are available.
.TP
.B textFont
The fonts to use for the text.
.TP
.B labelFont
The fonts to use for labels in dialog boxes.
.TP
.B buttonFont
The fonts to use for labels on buttons.
.TP
.B standardCur
The cursors to use in the main button window with the Quit and Help commands.
.TP
.B dialogCur
The cursors to use in the toolbox and dialog box windows.
.TP
.B helpFile
Name of a file to use instead of the system default helpfile.
.TP
.B editor
Name of editor to invoke (if neither \fBVISUAL\fP nor \fBEDITOR\fP environment
variable is set)
.TP
.B editorDoesWindows
Set to TRUE if your editor brings up its own window
(\fBxedit\fP or GNU \fBemacs\fP, for example.)
.TP
.B printCommand
Command string used to print the current file.
The name of the file is simply appended to this string.
(\fIenscript -G\fP is nice, if you've got it.)
.TP
.B maxWindows
Maximum number of windows which \fBxless\fB
will display at one time.
Set this to zero if you don't want a limit.
(This is a good	thing to set if you tend to run \fIxless *\fP
in directories with lots of files.)
.TP
.B quitButton
Set to TRUE if you want a Quit button on every window which, when clicked,
will quit \fBevery\fP window started from this copy of \fBxless\fP.
The default is FALSE.
.TP
.B sizeToFit
Set to TRUE if you want text windows to be only as big as they need to be,
up to the maximum size specified by 'geometry'.
.TP
.B removePath
Set to TRUE if you want the directory portion of the file path removed.
For example, a path like \fI/usr/src/X11/xless/main.c\fP would be shortened to
\fImain.c\fP.  The default is TRUE.
.TP
.B defaultSearchType
Default method used to search the text (invoked from the Search button).
Possible values are \fBExactMatch\fP (which is the default),
\fBCaseInsensitive\fP and \fBRegularExpression\fP.
.TP
.B monitorFile
Set to TRUE if you want the file to be continually checked for new input
(so that \fBxless\fP behaves like \fItail -f\fP).  The default is FALSE.
.LP
.SH "COLOR RESOURCES"
.LP
If you have a color display and you're running at least X11R5, you may want
to add a line like:
.LP
.RS
.ft B
.nf

	#ifdef COLOR
	*customization: -color
	#endif
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.LP
to your personal resources file.  This will allow you to get the
color-related resources for not only
.B xless,
but for every program which sets up its own color resources.
.LP
Versions of X earlier than X11R5 don't support the
.B customization
resource.  If you're on one of those, you'll have to include the color
resources in your personal resources file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1), X(8C), more(1), less(1)
.SH BUGS
There probably are some.
.LP
.SH AUTHOR
Dave Glowacki (UC Berkeley Software Warehouse)	<dglo@CS.Berkeley.EDU>

Originally by Carlo Lisa (MIT Project Athena) from
xmore written by Chris Peterson (MIT Project Athena).
